readme.md, before:

# Scott's Perplexity Clone: Technical Architecture

This document explains the technical architecture and operational mechanics of Scott's Perplexity Clone, an AI research assistant inspired by Perplexity AI. The system features a sophisticated multi-agent architecture, secure authentication, responsive frontend, and support for multiple LLM providers including OpenAI, Google, and Qwen models.

# Motivation

Motivation for building the app: I am a perplexity junky.  I have been using it since its inception and appreciate the application's ability to assist me in research.  One of the limitations that frustrates me is not being able to edit the sources that perplexity uses to generate its answers.  You can give it sources in the chat, but you cannot edit the sources it finds.  Sometimes, when I read the sources perplexity suggests, only a few are compelling.  I often want to add my own sources and then have the model answer.  This app allows you to do just that.

In addition, I wanted to build and deploy a resilient application that would enable me to test building agents with different agentic frameworks.  I wanted to deliver an application that I could use to test various inference security capabilities for model interaction, and something I could use to test any model, rather than just the model's perplexity supports.  Lastly, I wanted to have something to run thru the paces emerging AI development tooling, such as prompt engineering and observability platforms.
I will not get into why I deployed to Vercel and Fly.io.  For now, just know that it made much more sense to leave out the K8 complexity, and gain the added capabilities that Vercel and Fly offer.


## System Architecture

1. **Frontend (Vercel)**: A Next.js application that provides the user interface and client-side functionality
   - **Next.js UI**: The core user interface components and pages
   - **CopilotKit**: Manages communication with the backend and provides the chat interface

2. **Backend (Fly.io)**: Python-based API and AI agents that perform complex reasoning tasks
   - **Python API**: FastAPI endpoints that receive requests from the frontend
   - **LangGraph Agent**: The default agent architecture using directed graph-based reasoning
   - **CrewAI Agent**: Alternative multi-agent system with specialized agent roles
   - **Portkey**: API gateway that manages connections to various LLM providers

3. **External Services**:
   - **OpenAI API**: Provides access to GPT models for both direct frontend use and backend agents
   - **Google API**: Provides access to Gemini models for backend agents
   - **Qwen API**: Provides access to Qwen3 models via Portkey integration
   - **Pangea API**: Handles user authentication through Pangea's hosted login
   - **Tavily API**: Provides web search capabilities for both LangGraph and CrewAI agents

## How Model Selection Works

The model selection system is a core feature that allows users to switch between different AI backends:

### Selection Flow

When a user selects a model from the dropdown menu in the UI:

1. The `model-selector-provider.tsx` component captures this selection
2. It updates the URL with a `coAgentsModel` query parameter (e.g., `?coAgentsModel=crewai`)  
3. A full page reload is triggered via `window.location.href = url.toString()`
4. On page reload, the application reads the URL parameter to determine which model to use

### Agent Mapping Logic

The selected model determines which agent architecture handles the user's queries:

```typescript
// From model-selector-provider.tsx
let agent = "research_agent"; // Default LangGraph agent
if (model === "model3") {
  agent = "research_agent_google_genai"; // Google Gemini model via LangGraph
} else if (model === "crewai") {
  agent = "research_agent_crewai"; // CrewAI agent
} else if (model === "qwen3-30b-a3b-fp8-crewai") {
  agent = "research_agent_crewai_qwen3"; // Qwen3 model via CrewAI
}
```

This agent identifier is passed to CopilotKit, which routes requests to the appropriate backend endpoint.

## Agent Architecture Comparison

### LangGraph Implementation

The LangGraph agent operates as a directed graph of reasoning steps:

1. **Query Analysis**: The agent first analyzes the user's research question
2. **Search Planning**: It formulates search queries based on the analysis
3. **Web Search**: Executes searches and retrieves relevant content
4. **Content Processing**: Extracts and processes information from search results
5. **Answer Synthesis**: Generates a comprehensive answer based on retrieved information

State is maintained throughout this process in a graph structure, allowing for complex reasoning flows and backtracking when needed.

### CrewAI Implementation

The CrewAI agent takes a different approach using a team of specialized agents:

1. **Research Manager**: Coordinates the overall research process
2. **Search Specialist**: Focuses on finding relevant information
3. **Content Analyst**: Analyzes and extracts key information from sources
4. **Report Writer**: Synthesizes findings into a coherent response

These agents communicate and collaborate to solve the research query, providing a different perspective through their specialized roles.

### Qwen3 CrewAI Implementation

The Qwen3 CrewAI agent extends the standard CrewAI architecture with support for the Qwen3 model:

1. **Custom Wrapper**: A specialized `Qwen3ChatOpenAI` wrapper handles the Hermes-style tool calling format
2. **Tool Calling Adaptation**: Converts between OpenAI's tool calling format and Qwen3's XML-based format
3. **Resource Management**: Properly extracts and displays web search results in the UI
4. **Error Handling**: Implements fallback mechanisms for API connection issues

This implementation demonstrates the system's flexibility in supporting different LLM providers while maintaining a consistent user experience.

## Backend API Management

### Portkey Integration

Rather than hardcoding API keys and model configurations, the backend integrates with Portkey to manage:

- **API Authentication**: Securely stores and rotates API keys for various LLM providers
- **Traffic Routing**: Intelligently routes requests to different models based on availability and cost
- **Usage Tracking**: Monitors API usage and costs across different providers
- **Rate Limiting**: Prevents exceeding API rate limits
- **Model Configuration**: Manages specific configurations for different models (OpenAI, Google, Qwen)

This architecture allows the system to seamlessly switch between different LLM providers without code changes, enhancing reliability and flexibility. For the Qwen3 integration, a dedicated configuration (`PORTKEY_QWEN3_CONFIG`) is used to optimize the model's performance.

## Frontend Authentication System

### Pangea Integration

The application uses Pangea's hosted authentication service for secure user management:

1. **Authentication Flow**: 
   - Users are redirected to Pangea's hosted login page
   - After successful authentication, they're redirected back with a session token
   - The `AuthGuard` component verifies this token before allowing access to protected content

2. **Session Management**:
   - The Pangea SDK manages session state on the client side
   - The `useRequireAuth` hook checks authentication status on protected routes
   - When a user clicks the logout link (displayed as "Logout: user@email.com"), the session is terminated

This approach offloads authentication complexity to a specialized service while maintaining a seamless user experience.

## Frontend-Backend Communication

### CopilotKit as the Bridge

CopilotKit serves as the communication layer between the frontend and backend:

1. **State Synchronization**: 
   - The frontend initializes CopilotKit with the selected agent and model
   - CopilotKit maintains the chat state and history

2. **API Communication**:
   - When a user submits a query, CopilotKit sends it to the appropriate backend endpoint
   - The backend processes the query through the selected agent architecture
   - Responses are streamed back to the frontend in real-time

```typescript
// From Main.tsx
const { copilotContext } = useCopilotContext({
  name: agent,
  initialState: {
    model,
    research_question: "",
    resources: [],
    report: "",
    logs: [],
  },
});
```

### Direct OpenAI Integration

In addition to the backend agents, the UI directly integrates with OpenAI for specific features:

```typescript
// From Main.tsx
useCopilotChatSuggestions({
  instructions: [
    "What is quantum computing?",
    "Explain climate change impacts",
    "History of artificial intelligence"
  ].join('\n'),
});
```

This allows for immediate suggestions and UI enhancements without routing through the more complex backend agents.

## Production Infrastructure

The application runs on a distributed cloud infrastructure:

- **Frontend**: Deployed on Vercel's global edge network for low-latency access
- **Backend**: Hosted on Fly.io, providing containerized Python execution near users

This separation of concerns allows each component to scale independently and use the most appropriate technology for its requirements.

## Security Architecture

Security is implemented through multiple layers:

- **Authentication**: Pangea's hosted login provides secure user authentication
- **API Security**: Portkey manages API keys, preventing exposure in code or environment variables
- **Session Management**: Client-side session validation ensures only authenticated users can access protected resources
- **Secure Communication**: All communication between components occurs over HTTPS

Commit message:

readme update to describe the cold start condition of Qwen3

readme.md, after:

# Scott's Perplexity Clone: Technical Architecture

This document explains the technical architecture and operational mechanics of Scott's Perplexity Clone, an AI research assistant inspired by Perplexity AI. The system features a sophisticated multi-agent architecture, secure authentication, responsive frontend, and support for multiple LLM providers including OpenAI, Google, and Qwen models.

# Motivation

Motivation for building the app: I am a perplexity junky.  I have been using it since its inception and appreciate the application's ability to assist me in research.  One of the limitations that frustrates me is not being able to edit the sources that perplexity uses to generate its answers.  You can give it sources in the chat, but you cannot edit the sources it finds.  Sometimes, when I read the sources perplexity suggests, only a few are compelling.  I often want to add my own sources and then have the model answer.  This app allows you to do just that.

In addition, I wanted to build and deploy a resilient application that would enable me to test building agents with different agentic frameworks.  I wanted to deliver an application that I could use to test various inference security capabilities for model interaction, and something I could use to test any model, rather than just the model's perplexity supports.  Lastly, I wanted to have something to run thru the paces emerging AI development tooling, such as prompt engineering and observability platforms.
I will not get into why I deployed to Vercel and Fly.io.  For now, just know that it made much more sense to leave out the K8 complexity, and gain the added capabilities that Vercel and Fly offer.


## System Architecture

1. **Frontend (Vercel)**: A Next.js application that provides the user interface and client-side functionality
   - **Next.js UI**: The core user interface components and pages
   - **CopilotKit**: Manages communication with the backend and provides the chat interface

2. **Backend (Fly.io)**: Python-based API and AI agents that perform complex reasoning tasks
   - **Python API**: FastAPI endpoints that receive requests from the frontend
   - **LangGraph Agent**: The default agent architecture using directed graph-based reasoning
   - **CrewAI Agent**: Alternative multi-agent system with specialized agent roles
   - **Portkey**: API gateway that manages connections to various LLM providers

3. **External Services**:
   - **OpenAI API**: Provides access to GPT models for both direct frontend use and backend agents
   - **Google API**: Provides access to Gemini models for backend agents
   - **Qwen API**: Provides access to Qwen3 models via Portkey integration
   - **Pangea API**: Handles user authentication through Pangea's hosted login
   - **Tavily API**: Provides web search capabilities for both LangGraph and CrewAI agents

## How Model Selection Works

The model selection system is a core feature that allows users to switch between different AI backends:

### Selection Flow

When a user selects a model from the dropdown menu in the UI:

1. The `model-selector-provider.tsx` component captures this selection
2. It updates the URL with a `coAgentsModel` query parameter (e.g., `?coAgentsModel=crewai`)  
3. A full page reload is triggered via `window.location.href = url.toString()`
4. On page reload, the application reads the URL parameter to determine which model to use

### Agent Mapping Logic

The selected model determines which agent architecture handles the user's queries:

```typescript
// From model-selector-provider.tsx
let agent = "research_agent"; // Default LangGraph agent
if (model === "model3") {
  agent = "research_agent_google_genai"; // Google Gemini model via LangGraph
} else if (model === "crewai") {
  agent = "research_agent_crewai"; // CrewAI agent
} else if (model === "qwen3-30b-a3b-fp8-crewai") {
  agent = "research_agent_crewai_qwen3"; // Qwen3 model via CrewAI
}
```

This agent identifier is passed to CopilotKit, which routes requests to the appropriate backend endpoint.

## Agent Architecture Comparison

### LangGraph Implementation

The LangGraph agent operates as a directed graph of reasoning steps:

1. **Query Analysis**: The agent first analyzes the user's research question
2. **Search Planning**: It formulates search queries based on the analysis
3. **Web Search**: Executes searches and retrieves relevant content
4. **Content Processing**: Extracts and processes information from search results
5. **Answer Synthesis**: Generates a comprehensive answer based on retrieved information

State is maintained throughout this process in a graph structure, allowing for complex reasoning flows and backtracking when needed.

### CrewAI Implementation

The CrewAI agent takes a different approach using a team of specialized agents:

1. **Research Manager**: Coordinates the overall research process
2. **Search Specialist**: Focuses on finding relevant information
3. **Content Analyst**: Analyzes and extracts key information from sources
4. **Report Writer**: Synthesizes findings into a coherent response

These agents communicate and collaborate to solve the research query, providing a different perspective through their specialized roles.

### Qwen3 CrewAI Implementation

The Qwen3 CrewAI agent extends the standard CrewAI architecture with support for the Qwen3 model:

1. **Custom Wrapper**: A specialized `Qwen3ChatOpenAI` wrapper handles the Hermes-style tool calling format
2. **Tool Calling Adaptation**: Converts between OpenAI's tool calling format and Qwen3's XML-based format
3. **Resource Management**: Properly extracts and displays web search results in the UI
4. **Error Handling**: Implements fallback mechanisms for API connection issues

#### Qwen3 Deployment Architecture

The Qwen3 model is deployed with the following characteristics:

- **Scale-to-Zero Setup**: The model is hosted on Runpod with a scale-to-zero configuration to optimize costs
- **Cold Start Time**: When the model is selected after being idle, it takes approximately 3-4 minutes for the container to spin up
- **Initial Interaction**: Users may receive an error on the first interaction if the model is cold
- **Retry Mechanism**: If an error occurs, users should refresh the page and submit their question again once the model is hot

This deployment approach balances cost efficiency with availability, though users should be aware of the initial startup delay when selecting this model option.

This implementation demonstrates the system's flexibility in supporting different LLM providers while maintaining a consistent user experience.

## Backend API Management

### Portkey Integration

Rather than hardcoding API keys and model configurations, the backend integrates with Portkey to manage:

- **API Authentication**: Securely stores and rotates API keys for various LLM providers
- **Traffic Routing**: Intelligently routes requests to different models based on availability and cost
- **Usage Tracking**: Monitors API usage and costs across different providers
- **Rate Limiting**: Prevents exceeding API rate limits
- **Model Configuration**: Manages specific configurations for different models (OpenAI, Google, Qwen)

This architecture allows the system to seamlessly switch between different LLM providers without code changes, enhancing reliability and flexibility. For the Qwen3 integration, a dedicated configuration (`PORTKEY_QWEN3_CONFIG`) is used to optimize the model's performance.

## Frontend Authentication System

### Pangea Integration

The application uses Pangea's hosted authentication service for secure user management:

1. **Authentication Flow**: 
   - Users are redirected to Pangea's hosted login page
   - After successful authentication, they're redirected back with a session token
   - The `AuthGuard` component verifies this token before allowing access to protected content

2. **Session Management**:
   - The Pangea SDK manages session state on the client side
   - The `useRequireAuth` hook checks authentication status on protected routes
   - When a user clicks the logout link (displayed as "Logout: user@email.com"), the session is terminated

This approach offloads authentication complexity to a specialized service while maintaining a seamless user experience.

## Frontend-Backend Communication

### CopilotKit as the Bridge

CopilotKit serves as the communication layer between the frontend and backend:

1. **State Synchronization**: 
   - The frontend initializes CopilotKit with the selected agent and model
   - CopilotKit maintains the chat state and history

2. **API Communication**:
   - When a user submits a query, CopilotKit sends it to the appropriate backend endpoint
   - The backend processes the query through the selected agent architecture
   - Responses are streamed back to the frontend in real-time

```typescript
// From Main.tsx
const { copilotContext } = useCopilotContext({
  name: agent,
  initialState: {
    model,
    research_question: "",
    resources: [],
    report: "",
    logs: [],
  },
});
```

### Direct OpenAI Integration

In addition to the backend agents, the UI directly integrates with OpenAI for specific features:

```typescript
// From Main.tsx
useCopilotChatSuggestions({
  instructions: [
    "What is quantum computing?",
    "Explain climate change impacts",
    "History of artificial intelligence"
  ].join('\n'),
});
```

This allows for immediate suggestions and UI enhancements without routing through the more complex backend agents.

## Production Infrastructure

The application runs on a distributed cloud infrastructure:

- **Frontend**: Deployed on Vercel's global edge network for low-latency access
- **Backend**: Hosted on Fly.io, providing containerized Python execution near users

This separation of concerns allows each component to scale independently and use the most appropriate technology for its requirements.

## Security Architecture

Security is implemented through multiple layers:

- **Authentication**: Pangea's hosted login provides secure user authentication
- **API Security**: Portkey manages API keys, preventing exposure in code or environment variables
- **Session Management**: Client-side session validation ensures only authenticated users can access protected resources
- **Secure Communication**: All communication between components occurs over HTTPS
